Now let's see how handling bugs and customer engagement is
different with kanban. Dealing with bugs.
Since kanban is always working with small groups of features and
features are continuously deployed, then when there are bugs found,
either by the QA testers or by end users,
your backlog should be small and easily remediated since the
feature is still current in everyone's mind.
As each feature or task moves through the value stream,
the subsequent step can only pull the item if it is done as
per the done rule as we discussed earlier. This approach
further reduces the number of bugs.
A critical step in the value stream is the validation step.
This step must have not only the necessary testing scenarios,
but also full integrated testing for that feature so the
feature can be fully production ready.
Will you still have bugs when your feature reaches production? Well,
of course you will.
I would like to suggest to you, though, that you will have fewer bugs,
and the ones that you do have should be easier to repair since you
have a solid team of cross‑functional engineers and the time span from
release to bug identification is shorter.
Now let's compare the differences of customer engagement
between waterfall and traditional development approaches
with kanban. With waterfall,
you have a strong engagement during planning, so very early on in the project
lifecycle, customer meetings are held and specifications are written. With
kanban, you engage any time and all the time. Product teams, aka product
owners, are engaged feature by feature.
With waterfall, you have less engagement in implementation.
There may be some engagement at major milestones and certainly
during final release or system pilot. With kanban,
you have the product team members regularly attend the standups to help
clarify requirements and help solve issues. With waterfall during
development, the product is usually brittle,
buggy, and not ready for testing and feedback,
further limiting touchpoints with the customer. And with kanban,
the customers are engaged throughout the entire project, and
because we deliver in small batches,
features are continuously available for customer acceptance.
With waterfall, customers must wait until large,
chunky pieces of the system are totally complete.
With kanban, your team can better react to customer
feedback. Since work in progress is limited,
you can more easily adjust to the customer's demands and receive consistent, timely, and relevant feedback.